XPath: Learn It!
Published on July 24, 2007.
So I’ve been trying to do some Facebook App stuff in Ruby on Rails (I already did some in PHP) and the RFacebook Gem uses this wacky XHTML/XML parser called “Hpricot.”
The most experience I have with parsing XML is winging it with REXML until I got something that was somewhat correct.
So I tried using Hpricot tonight.
Apparently it’s super fast, but the documentation assumes you know a whole lot about the mating habits (internal workings) of HTML and XML.
And… I don’t really.
At least, not until I found this handy XPath tutorial !
After actually reading the tutorial, rather than trying to wing/hack it again, I think I have a pretty good feel for this Hpricot thing.
Basically, there’s a pretty simple vocabulary for describing the nested nature of XML.
It’s impossible to figure out from the Hpricot tutorials (which I tried doing for a while), but insanely simple once you just look at the tutorial.
Ah well, I guess that’ll teach me a lesson not to hack so much when it’s easier to RTFM…